Hello and welcome to another computer architecture CPU emulator walkthrough.
And so in this one we are going to go through a number of simple samples.
And I will turn on the viewing of the assembly language down here, so we can see that.
This one here is really simple.
It is going to load a constant into the A register, 27, that's a decimal 27.
And then we're going to add 15, so this is going to be 27 plus 15.
And then we're going to store it into memory location 00, and then we're going to stop.
So this is going to cause a little bit of output.
So let's go ahead and narrate the execution, and then start it running.
I'll put this in a place where we don't want to hide the memory, because the action is
going to happen here in the memory.
So here we go.
PC 0x00, load the accumulator immediate 0x1B, PC 0x02, add will carry immediate 0x0F, PC
0x04, store accumulator to address 0, PC 0x06, break printed output asterisk.
So this time we stored something in the memory, so the program will dump the memory up to
a 0 byte, kind of like C, right?
It will dump the memory up to a 0 byte, and 0x2A, let's go look at our ASCII chart.
0x2A, 0x2A, 0x2A, there we go.
Is a 42 decimal, interesting choice of number, and it's an asterisk.
And so it's a 0x2A, you can see it in the memory, and when the program stops, it prints
it out.
Okay?
So then let's take a look at another simple example.
Let's take a look at the assembly language for it.
So this is going to basically stick that letter H into the accumulator, then store it in memory
location 0, and then put a high in the accumulator, and store that in memory location 1.
So let's go ahead and step that, PC 0x00, load accumulator immediately at 0x48.
I'll go to the next instruction, which is going to store that one.
PC 0x02, store accumulator to address 0.
So we took what was in the accumulator and stored it into memory address 0, and now we're
going to load the I.
PC 0x04, load accumulator immediately at 0x69.
So 0x69 is the letter I, and now we're going to store it.
PC 0x06, store accumulator to address 1.
We just put some data into memory location 1.
We're going to step one more, and it's going to stop, and it's going to print out what
is here in ASCII.
PC 0x08, break, print, hit output, hi.
So it said hi.
And so let's do one more simple one, and this one's kind of weird.
So I have a single instruction, which is break, which is stop, and you'll notice it says zero
zero zero right away, but I used an assembly language data pseudo-op, we call these pseudo-ops,
and it preloads the data, and it says, and this is hello world, so you can see it's hello
world in ASCII, 0x20 is the space.
So we're just going to run this, but it's going to immediately stop, but it's going
to dump the memory because we preloaded data into memory, and so this is really showing
you more about how this data pseudo-operation works.
PC 0x00, break, print, hit output, hello world.
Okay, and so let me then show you one more thing in this.
You can write code in the assembler, okay?
This is a little text editor.
You read the assembly language, you go into the documentation, read the assembly language,
and then you can say take this code and assemble it.
So it assembled it, and so now it says hello CA for E, so there's the, so in location five
is the space, and then C is the 43.
Let's go ahead and bring up a ASCII chart so we can figure out what this memory location
six is.
It's a 0x43, and that's C, and then 41 is the A, right?
So you can kind of see this, and now we're going to run it.
It's only got one instruction, which is a stop instruction, but then it's going to print
out its.
PC 0x00, break, print, hit output, hello CA for E.
That's just really showing you the data thing, and later we will use this to preload data
and then write code that reads from memory and does something to that memory.
But for now I hope you found this walkthrough with a couple of simple examples useful.
Cheers.